[Music]
you know it's not so hard to imagine
something mysterious like ships and
planes vanishing in the infamous Bermuda
Triangle the ocean is big and full of
Wonders after all but what about say a
lake it's not so absurd when we're
talking about one as huge as Lake
Michigan yes the Michigan triangle is a
thing and it's just as eerily
inexplicable first and foremost let's
get to know more about the one
responsible for so many unexplained
vanishings the North American Great
Lakes are all massive which is why they
don't call them the pretty big lakes and
Lake Michigan itself is the fourth
largest freshwater lake in the world
with a surface area of twenty-two
thousand four hundred square miles it's
got plenty of space to fit its own
triangle capable of proofing vessels
away in the blink of an eye now about
that triangle it's situated in the lower
half of the lake with a corner at
Manitowoc Wisconsin and the other two at
Ludington and Benton Harbor Michigan
it's sixteen times smaller than the
Bermuda Triangle but strange events
happen here no less frequently
especially if you keep in mind the
difference in size some witnesses report
seeing a strange glow under the surface
others swear they saw a UFO in the skies
over the lake and so many just feel
uneasy being there so you ready to dive
in the first case goes way back to the
17th century when the Great Lakes
started to become a means of moving
goods for trading that was also a time
when explorers were trying to find the
Northwest Passage to connect the
Atlantic and Pacific Oceans the Great
Lakes would obviously prove fruitless in
that pursuit but they didn't know that
back then anyway in August of 1679 a
French ship called lead Griffin was
sailing across the uncharted waters of
the Great Lakes she was the first major
sized ship to sail on the lakes and her
mission to establish a large scale trade
route in the area was going quite well
but when she made it to Lake Michigan
the Griffon just vanish
well here we need to get some things
straight first at the time a ship
vanishing wasn't really a
headline-making mystery like it is today
you see if you have no means of ship
detection like radars and no way of
rapid communication like radio vanishing
is what technically happens to every
ship that meets its demise one way or
another but this story has a lot of
missing puzzle pieces for example the
cause of Legree phone's disappearance
was never fully established some
evidence points at a sudden storm while
others believe it was rival traders that
attacked and destroyed the vessel or
even perhaps a mutiny of the ship's crew
plenty of theories no real answers the
weirdest thing is that Legree phones
wreckage was never found
it's such a mystery that the search
continues to this very day plenty of
wreckage hunters claim to have found the
ship but none of them were ever
confirmed I guess the good news is that
this never-ending search for legree fans
resting place at the bottom of Lake
Michigan has resulted in the accidental
discovery of other lost ships that sank
there but Ligurian itself hmm no such
luck even if the reason for the Griffins
disappearance was a sudden storm could
this storm be a bad omen for centuries
to come it well could have been because
this vanishing thing was only the
beginning of a series of unexplainable
events the next noticeable vanishing
happened in 1891 to the thomas hume
schooner it was reinforced well for its
purpose to transport huge masses of
lumber from Muskegon to Chicago but
these reinforcements couldn't save the
ship while sailing alongside its sister
ship the Rousimar which by the way would
also be claimed by Lake Michigan two
decades later in 1912 the two saw a
storm on the horizon the roux Simone
decided to head back to Chicago
while the Thomas Hume would try and
weather the storm
the schooner never did make it back to
its homeport the search for the ship was
initiated almost immediately but with no
results for almost 120 years that is
until a
ship believed but never confirmed to be
the Thomas Hume was surveyed in 2010
whether or not the schooners underwater
grave had indeed been found one thing's
for certain this wasn't the first and it
wouldn't be the last victim taken by the
Michigan triangle there would also be
the Rosabelle also a lumber schooner she
set off on her final voyage from High
Island to Benton Harbor in 1921 she
never made it to her destination either
she was found later drifting aimlessly
on the waters of Lake Michigan
after being capsized by some great force
it looked like Rosabelle suffered severe
damage to her hull as if something had
crashed into her along the way but the
thing is there were no other ships
anywhere near the course Rosabelle was
on to add to the mystery the ship's crew
was nowhere to be found and never heard
from again
well are the hairs standing up on the
back of your neck at this point oh just
wait because there are even weirder
events surrounding this mysterious Lake
on April 28th 1937 captain George R
Donner was commanding his freighter
called MacFarlane through the ice of the
Great Lakes it was a harsh trip and a
sleepless night filled with tension had
taken its toll on the tired captain
after making it through the ice and into
the safer waters of Lake Michigan Oh had
he only know Donner decided to take a
break before docking in Port Washington
he instructed his crew not to disturb
him until they arrived went into his
cabin and locked it from the inside the
crew tried to call for him when they
arrived at the port but he wasn't
answering
finally panic-stricken that their
captain was in need of help they broke
into his cabin but the man wasn't there
after a meticulous search through every
inch of the ship no trace of Donner was
ever found to this day the mystery of
captain Donna's vanishing has no
reliable answer to it whatsoever with
the onset of modern times it may seem
like mysteries are going extinct
echolocation helps experts find
shipwrecks communication devices and
GPS keep the coast guard constantly
updated on the state and whereabouts of
any ship on the water and even vessels
themselves are sturdier than ever but on
the other hand the safer the times we
live in
the less explainable are situations in
which everything goes terribly wrong and
when your fancy devices can't explain
what you don't understand that is a
particularly frightening feeling this
next story is the epitome of that
terrifying sense of dread and it made a
lot of buzz back in 1950 for starters it
didn't happen to a ship but to an
airplane Northwest orient Airlines
flight 2501 had taken off from New York
and was heading for Seattle on June 23rd
when the plane was flying over the area
of Lake Michigan's triangle a worrying
report came from the pilots they
requested a descent to 2,500 feet
because of some electrical discharges
raging in the air after that the plane
dropped off the radar it would appear
that flight 2501 had encountered a storm
cloud the plane malfunction and then
fell into Lake Michigan but even with
all efforts to try and find the wreckage
there was no success sonars gave nothing
and divers searching the whole bottom of
the lake through and through were able
to find only some pieces of light debris
the main body of the dc4 airplane was
never found and without it the cause of
the crash remained a mystery -
reportedly two police officers saw a
strange red light hovering above the
lake on exactly the same day the plane
disappeared the light remained there for
about ten minutes and then it was gone
it's possible that what they saw could
have been a red sprite a rare kind of
lightning that's produced by a positive
electric discharge instead of a negative
one as as usual for lightning but those
commonly appear only in areas far above
thunder clouds how they could possibly
be connected to the planes disappearance
is yet unknown the anomaly of the Lake
Michigan triangle if it exists and
whatever it really is remain
a giant flaming question mark on the map
of the United States and it only gets
more and more complicated as new
discoveries start to unfold only time
spent on further research investigations
and wreckage hunting will tell how many
of these strange events really are
pointing at something mysterious
happening over this region of the lake
and how many of them were just mistakes
or tragic coincidences in the meantime
it's simply one of the greatest sources
of mystery to this day now a question
for you
are there any mysterious geographical
bodies where you live feel free to share
down in the comments if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go vanish just yet we have
over 2,000 cool videos for you to check
out all you have to do is pick the left
or right video click on it and enjoy
stay on the bright side of life
you